= TourBus

Flexible and scalable website testing tool.

== Authors

* David Brady -- david.brady@leadmediapartners.com
* Tim Harper -- tim.harper@leadmediapartners.com
* James Britt -- james@neurogami.com
* JT Zemp -- jtzemp@gmail.com


== General Info

TourBus is an intelligent website load testing tool. Allows for
complicated testing scenarios including filling out forms, following
redirects, handling cookies, and following links--all of the things
you'd normally associate with a regression suite or integration
testing tool. The difference is that TourBus also scales concurrently,
and you can perform hundreds of complicated regression tests
simultaneously in order to thoroughly load test your website.

It uses Webrat::Mechanize to run the browsing session, so you get the
load testing you want, and all the sweetness of Webrat to write your
tests in.

== Motivation

I started writing TourBus because I needed flexibility and scalability
in a website testing tool, and the extant tools all provided one but
not the other. Selenium is ultraflexible but limited to the number of
browsers you can have open at once, while Apache Bench is powerful and
fast but limited to simple tests.

TourBus lets you define complicated paths through your website, then
execute those paths concurrently for stress testing.

== Example

To see TourBus in action, you need to write scripts. For lack of a
better name, these are called Tours. 

=== Example Tour 

* Make a folder called tours and put a file in it called simple.rb. In
  it write:

      class Simple < Tour
        def test_homepage
          visit "http://#{@host}/"
          assert_contain "My Home Page"
        end
      end

* Files in ./tours should have classes that match their names. E.g.
  "class BigHairyTest < Tour" belongs in ./tours/big_hairy_test.rb

* Think Test::Unit. test_* methods will be found automagically.
  setup() and teardown() methods will be executed at the appropriate
  times.

=== Example TourBus Run

You want to invoke +tourbus+ from the parent directory of the @tours/@ folder.

For example, if you have this project  tree ...

    `-- contact_app
        |-- README.rdoc
        |-- contact_app.rb
        `-- tours
            |-- simple.rb
            `-- tourbus.yml

... then you execute  +tourbus+ from the +contact_app/+ directory.

    tourbus -c 2 -n 3 simple

That will run the +simple.rb+ tour file.

It will create 2 concurrent Tour runners, each of which will run all
of the methods in Simple three times.

* You can specify multiple tours.

    tourbus -c 2 -n 3 simple1 simple2 simple3

* If you don't specify a tour, all tours in ./tours will be run.

* tourbus --help will give you more information.

* You can run tours and filter given tests.

    tourbus -c 2 -n 3 simple -t test_login,test_logout

Note that if you specify multiple tours and filter tests, the filtered
tests will be run on all tours specified. If you do not specify a
tour, the filtered tests will be run on all tours found in the
+./tours+ folder.

=== Example TourWatch Run

On the webserver, you can type 

    tourwatch -c 4

To begin running tourwatch. It's basically a stripped-down version of
top with cheesy text graphs. (TourWatch's development cycles were
included in the 2 days for TourBus.)

* The -c option is for the total number of cores on the server. The
  top app will cheerfully report a process as taking 392% CPU if it is
  using 98% of four cores. This option is only necessary for making
  the little text graphs scale correctly.

* You can choose which processes to watch by passing a csv to -p:
  
    tourwatch -p ruby,mongrel

  Each process name is a partial regexp, so the above would match
  mongrel AND mongrel_rails, etc.

* tourwatch --help will give you more information.

== History and Status

TourBus began life as a 2-day throwaway app. It is definitely an app
whose development provides many opportunities for open-source
contributors to make improvements. It is chock-full of brutal hacks,
duplications, oversights, and kludges.

== Hacks, Kludges, Known Issues, and Piles of Steaming Poo

* If you give a tour a name that is pluralized, it won't work. This is
  probably a bug worth fixing. The reason for it is that we take file
  names and "classify" them, and e.g. "ranking_reports" becomes
  "RankingReport", not "RankingReports". This is an artifact of
  borrowing from Rails' activesupport libs and should probably be
  fixed.

* Mechanize 0.8 doesn't always play well together with TourBus. If you
  get "connection refused" socket errors, try upgrading to Mechanize
  0.9.

* JRuby doesn't play well with Nokogiri. I have set the html_parser to
  use hpricot, which should work around the issue for now.

* There are no specs. Yikes! This is to my eternal shame because I'm
  sort of a testing freak. Because TourBus *WAS* a testing tool, I
  didn't put tests on it. I haven't put tests on it yet because I'm
  not sure how to go about it. Instead of exercising a web app with a
  test browser, we need to exercise a test browser with... um... a web
  app? (dbrady notes: Now that we have a contact_app, we could try
  writing some specs and features to run tourbus against it.)

* Web-Sickle is another internal app, written by Tim Harper, that
  works "well enough". Until I open-sourced this project, it was a
  submodule in the app. We wanted to keep TourBus extensions separate
  from WebSickle itself, so there's a lot of code in Runner that
  really belongs in WebSickle.

* Documentation is <strike>horrible</strike> merely quite bad.

* There's not much in the way of examples, either. When I removed all
  the LMP-specific code, all of the examples went with it. Sorry about
  that. Coming soon.

== Feature Requests (How You Can Help!)

* I'd like to beef up the example contact app to show more of TourBus
  than the simplest possible path. Adding in another page or two, and
  then adding an additional tour or two would make it more apparent to
  new users that you can do things like run multiple tours at once.
  Also, having more than one test_ method in simple.rb would let us
  demonstrate test filtering as well. (Be aware that at present
  [2009-04-17], webrat still does not play well with Sinatra sessions
  so there would be complications. dbrady's fork of webrat combines
  jferris' fix with the latest webrat, and will be maintained until
  main webrat includes the feature. That fork is at
  http://github.com/dbrady/webrat)

* I'd like to remove WebSickle and replace it with Webrat. There is a
  webrat branch on the main fork (http://github.com/dbrady/tourbus)
  that is 90% complete. Once that's done we can start massaging the
  API to be a little more friendly. [done (but now that it is, it 
  needs a refactoring--Tour should probably inherit from 
  Webrat::Mechanize, not delegate to it.)]

== Credits

* Tim Harper camped at my place for a day fixing bugs in WebSickle as
  I exercised more and more new bits of it. Thanks, dude.

* Lead Media Partners paid me to write TourBus, then let me open
  source it. How much do they rock? All the way to 11, that's how much
  they rock.

* James Britt jumped on this and revived it as it was gathering dust.
  Thanks!

* JT Zemp added before_tour, after_tour. Thanks!

== License

MIT. See the license file.

